# Duplicate-Questions-Detection-using-NLP-Deep-Learning-Machine-Learning
In this project, I investigated various techniques to identify question duplication between pairings. There is a good likelihood that two inquiries that ask the same thing in general will differ significantly in terminology and form. People ask questions in online QA forums, yet a large proportion of those questions end up with the same response, but the expression and words used make it another inquiry, so the question ends up being a copy of the first question submitted.
## Introduction
Similar to Yahoo, Quora, and Stack Overflow, there are numerous QA forums and community websites. It has become extremely difficult and challenging for these online forums to maintain the replies consistent for questions of the same type. If two questions have the same answer or can be answered in the same way, we can define them as being the same. This problem arises because there are so many people using these websites, which makes it difficult to ask queries with identical wording. Effectively identifying duplicate questions not only helps users save time, but also provides the best response for similar questions.The expert or person providing the answer also gains from being able to respond to the questions more than once. As a result, we must create a model that can find questions of the same kind on various websites. In this project, we'll explore the most effective ways to employ neural networks to spot duplicate queries.
## Related Work
Duplicate question detection is a highly serious NLP issue. Two papers that are relevant to our study were used as references for this research. The first study we have cited is by Zihan Chen et al., who extensively preprocessed the data and employed classic machine learning algorithms like Support Vector Machine (SVM) and many other features. Additionally, they claimed that the performance of deep learning techniques was significantly restricted to training on small and noisy data.The majority of these types of topics nowadays, if we want to address them, rely on "Siamese" neural network architecture, where the input is taken as two words and encoded using the same neural network. This is due to the recent development in Deep Learning techniques. The second article we used as a source is by Bogdanova et al. They employed some distance mertic and used two output vectors. In contrast to more traditional methods like Jaccard Similarity, they discovered that using a Convoluted Neural Network (CNN) in combination with a cosine similarity distance measure produced significantly better results. In a dataset from Stack Overflow, they discovered this pattern.The Wang et al. paper, the only result-oriented publication on the Quora dataset to date, is the third paper that we have used as reference. Since they saw that the Siamese encoding network does not allow for interaction between the input words, they have developed a multi viewpoint LSTM model as an alternative.
